Ti'heasha Beasley: Foreign. Welcome to another episode of between
Ti'heasha Beasley: sermons. You guessed it. I am not
Ti'heasha Beasley: pastor Brandt. I am Tyisha Beasley and
Ti'heasha Beasley: I get to be your creative director
Ti'heasha Beasley: and host of this show between sermons.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Why you laughing?
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Cause he said you wasn't Pastor Brent.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I'm not, you know. Cause he normally
Ti'heasha Beasley: opens the show.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: That's right.
Ti'heasha Beasley: So you guessed it. Pastor Brent is
Ti'heasha Beasley: away doing mission.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: So we can have fun.
Ti'heasha Beasley: We can have fun. So as a
Ti'heasha Beasley: matter of fact, let me get a
Ti'heasha Beasley: little loose, you know, why you looking?
David Beasley: Kick your feet up. Put on the
David Beasley: table.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Kicking my feet up. So today on
Ti'heasha Beasley: the show, I have with me two
Ti'heasha Beasley: amazing guests. I'm going to leave with
Ti'heasha Beasley: my husband, David Beasley. Thank you for
Ti'heasha Beasley: joining the conversation.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Hey, husband. Of course.
David Beasley: Hey, wife. Carlton. Nice to see you,
David Beasley: sir.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Hey, husband.
David Beasley: Yes, I'm happy to be here. Happy
David Beasley: to be here. It's a pleasure as
David Beasley: usual.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yes, it's good to have you on
Ti'heasha Beasley: the show. And then we have pastor
Ti'heasha Beasley: Carlton. What can we call you on
Ti'heasha Beasley: the show today? Just Carlton.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah, man, just keep it casual.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I like calling you pastor Carlton.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I think that he started doing that.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I was like, who is she talking
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Pastor Carlton, 24 7. All right, so
Ti'heasha Beasley: we got a good show. Why are
Ti'heasha Beasley: you so cheesy?
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I'm giddy. Like yesterday.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yesterday, three services.
David Beasley: Excited.
Ti'heasha Beasley: How was it going into the three.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: So we went to three services. For
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: those who don't know, it was exciting
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: at first, but then after that second
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: service, my body was like, something's missing
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: home.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That is hilarious.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: So I started getting giddy.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Okay.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Anxious.
Ti'heasha Beasley: The Bible said be anxious.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I was dancing in worship. I never
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: do that.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That's funny.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I was moving.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Did you have coffee?
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I don't know. Yes, I did.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That's what happened. Kicked in third surface.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, no, but it was a good
Ti'heasha Beasley: word. You did good. I love that
Ti'heasha Beasley: you brought your whole self to the
Ti'heasha Beasley: table when you were preaching.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I don't know what else to do.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Okay. No, that's good. Good role model
Ti'heasha Beasley: for us. So that was good. We.
Ti'heasha Beasley: We are still in the book, Peter.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah. First Peter.
David Beasley: First Peter.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: It's great.
Ti'heasha Beasley: So how's it going for you so
Ti'heasha Beasley: far, both of you?
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Pastor Carlton, with going through first Peter.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah, I think it's good because, you
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: know, first Peter. Not that we don't
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: look at non Paul letter books. Did
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I say that correctly?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: You understand what I'm saying?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, I do.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: But it's always good to read books
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that aren't, you know, the standard main
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: books of the New Testament, the gospels
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: and Paul's letters.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: So reading first pretty. Peter was pretty.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Hey, pretty. Reading First Peter was refreshing.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: It was a different perspective because I
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: think, and I kind of mentioned this,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: reading Peter's writings, that it's a different
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: style than Paul. And because we read
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Paul's writing so much, we get that,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I don't know what you call it,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that Greek metaphor, storytelling kind of style
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: of writing. And Peter, he has a
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: completely different style of writing than Paul.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: So it was refreshing to get. It
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: was almost reading a different translation of
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the Bible.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That's very true.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: That was nice.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I'm glad you pointed that out. That's
Ti'heasha Beasley: very true.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah, Peter's cool.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah. Good observation.
David Beasley: Yeah. I mean, I'll add, I love
David Beasley: the fact that when you look at
David Beasley: First Peter, you see confirmation based on
David Beasley: the rest of the scriptures. So you're
David Beasley: so used to seeing, like you said,
David Beasley: Paul the apostle talking about some similar
David Beasley: topics from his perspective. You know, you
David Beasley: got end time prophecy, you have sin,
David Beasley: you have sin, of course, the second
David Beasley: coming of Christ and everything. But to
David Beasley: see Paul, well, Peter, see Peter, he
David Beasley: brings his unique perspective, highlighting the fact
David Beasley: that the way we should live in
David Beasley: light of those end times. Right. So
David Beasley: Paul does that in his way to
David Beasley: his own unique way too. But Peter,
David Beasley: Peter has a different perspective because of
David Beasley: his unique proximity with Christ. So we
David Beasley: all know Paul didn't necessarily walk with
David Beasley: Jesus. He wasn't one of the original
David Beasley: 12. So here in Peter's perspective, it's
David Beasley: just refreshing to hear him elaborate on
David Beasley: what Jesus has started teaching him in
David Beasley: the 12 as they walk together. So
David Beasley: it's like a different, it's a different
David Beasley: point of view. Right. Paul, of course
David Beasley: is reliable revelation from Jesus. Confirmation from
David Beasley: the apostles, saw Jesus on the road
David Beasley: to Damascus, all those great things. But
David Beasley: Peter was like sat under him, walked
David Beasley: side by side, broke bread with him,
David Beasley: had a unique experience of betraying him
David Beasley: and then being restored by him. So
David Beasley: his perspective is so different and unique
David Beasley: just hearing it from him. So it's
David Beasley: always different, you know, and refreshing to
David Beasley: hear from a different perspective based on
David Beasley: the person's proximity to Christ.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: And Peter goes hard too. And I
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: think one of the reasons he goes
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: hard is because he's seen Jesus get
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: crucified and then he's seen a return
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: and then he sees him ascend into
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: heaven. And then Jesus gives them instructions
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: on what to do when the Holy
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Spirit comes and then he experiences the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Holy Spirit. And so Peter has such
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: a hands on spiritual experience with Jesus
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that he is just landed out there
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: in first Peter about what we need
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to do and how we need to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: live in light of the end times.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: And so Peter has a. More. It's
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: not that Paul's message isn't real to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: us. It is real to us, but
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: it's different when you are like, at
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the scene of the incident that leads
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to how. To what you need to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: say and how you need to preach
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: facts. So that's cool.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, no, that was really good. I
Ti'heasha Beasley: love that you guys touched on the
Ti'heasha Beasley: difference in writing styles and delivery styles,
Ti'heasha Beasley: because that's something. We haven't unpacked it,
Ti'heasha Beasley: I guess, in this sermon series. So
Ti'heasha Beasley: that's dope. I love that. So I'll
Ti'heasha Beasley: say, what's one thing from your message
Ti'heasha Beasley: yesterday that. Not that you struggle with,
Ti'heasha Beasley: but this was like, okay, this is
Ti'heasha Beasley: kind of close to home for me.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah, I think the. The one thing
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that I kept going back to was
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Peter. He, like the first half of
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the chapter of chapter four, he really
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: touches on sin. And one part of
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: it, he talks about not being your
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: old self, going back to the sin
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that you used to do. And it's
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: like, you know, that's really powerful because
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: a lot of times, you know, as
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: believers, we come to salvation, we become
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: followers of Christ. But that doesn't necessarily
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: mean the desires of sin leave you.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah, it just means that you have
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: a new way of fighting those desires
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: of sin being, you know, going through
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the process of holiness through the Holy
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Spirit that now lives inside of you.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: But those desires don't go away. So
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: you need that spiritual instruction that Peter
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: gives us on how to stay away
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: from the life that you used to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: live. Like, he very plainly says, stop
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that. You know, stop going after human
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: pleasure. I think how he puts it
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: in the esv, he calls it human
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: pleasure. And human pleasure is sin. And
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: it's like a lot of times we
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: think that human pleasure is just our
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: nature is natural to us. It's what
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: we've always wanted to experience or have
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: experienced. But when we become believers, we
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: have to call it out what it
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: is, and it's sin. And so for
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: me, it's like, you know, just having
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the revelation or the realization that I'm
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: a believer today, but I still have
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the desires of human pleasure. And I
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: have to understand that human pleasure is
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: sin. And I have to find ways
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to make sure that those desires don't
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: become actions in my life. So, yeah,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: so that was good for me. Just
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the whole reflection of sin and where
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: it is. And then also I talked
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: about the cup of sin. I think
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I got that from Charles Spurgeon Life
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: in Christ by Charles Spurgeon. If you
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: guys ever want to read eight volumes
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: of great writing. He talks about the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: cup of sin and how the cup
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: of sin starts sweet and like you
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: will take sips of sin. I don't
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: know how else to put it, but
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: he takes. He. He says, you take
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: sips of sin, and you take small
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: sips, and it's sweet. And then you.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: You. You get to the place where
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: it's like, well, I can have this
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: as part of my diet or in
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: my life, and it not affect me
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: because I'm only taking small sips of
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: it. And it's. It's good. It's pleasurable.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: You know, there's no harm in it.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: There's nothing wrong with it. But that's
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the devil's plan, or that's his. His
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: ploy to pull you into darkness is
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: you, You. You. You do these small
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: actions in your life that are sin,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: and you continue doing it until it
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: becomes habitual. It becomes a habit. It
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: becomes an addiction. And that addiction will
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: then lead to death. And how Charles
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Pershing puts it is that that sweetness
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: fades and the couple's sin becomes bitter.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: And now you're drinking that sin in,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: and it's bitterness, and you don't even
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: know why you're still doing it. And
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: it's because that sin has taken over
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: your life and become this addiction in
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: you, and it's put you in darkness,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: and you don't know how you got
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: there. Yeah, you don't know how you're
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: going to get out of it. You
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: get so deep into sin, it's like,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: how in the world did I get
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: here? And why do I keep going
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: back to it? So, yes, I thought
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that was pretty good. Me pulling that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: information out of First Peter, Chapter 4.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That was really good. Where you just
Ti'heasha Beasley: unpacked it there.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah, that wasn't me. Charles Spurgeon. There
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: you go.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And the Holy Spirit.
David Beasley: That reminds me of Scripture. I forget
David Beasley: where it might have been paused at
David Beasley: this point when he reminds us about
David Beasley: the deceitfulness of sin. And that's something
David Beasley: that stood out to me years ago
David Beasley: when I had various struggles thinking that
David Beasley: the activity I was participating in would
David Beasley: bring me pleasure and joy and peace
David Beasley: and everything. But, of course, it brought
David Beasley: the opposite. And when I ran across
David Beasley: the scripture that talked about sin, that's
David Beasley: deceitful. It made so much sense, because
David Beasley: deception, it gives off something that seems
David Beasley: true. But we know that it's under
David Beasley: the facade and under the behind the
David Beasley: curtain. It's a complete Fraud, it's fraudulent,
David Beasley: it's false, it's destructive. And that's exactly
David Beasley: what all sin is. Regardless of how
David Beasley: you say, you sip in if it's
David Beasley: sin, regardless of the amount, it's deceptive,
David Beasley: right? So small sips, huge gulps, whatever
David Beasley: the case may be, it's deceptive. So
David Beasley: realizing, like, the minute I see myself
David Beasley: or feel myself leaning towards the pathway
David Beasley: where sin may be crouching possible or
David Beasley: just flat out trying to tempt me,
David Beasley: that's the moment where deception is trying
David Beasley: to take root. And that's when I
David Beasley: gotta replace that with truth. And that's
David Beasley: what Peter, I feel like, is really
David Beasley: trying to remind us about, like, not
David Beasley: to operate, especially as sojourners, foreigners, not
David Beasley: to. Not to succumb to those around
David Beasley: us. He's. He's. He's highlighting the importance
David Beasley: of distinction, the importance of obedience, and
David Beasley: the importance of maintaining our witness. Which
David Beasley: is what you mentioned when he said,
David Beasley: when people malign you because of who
David Beasley: you are.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right.
David Beasley: That's because of your witness, right. People
David Beasley: caught in the deception, you don't see
David Beasley: it right. While you're in it. And
David Beasley: I've been there before, too. It's almost
David Beasley: like the person who says, I can
David Beasley: stop this whenever I wanted to, whenever
David Beasley: I want, you know?
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right.
David Beasley: But we from the outside clearly see
David Beasley: there's an addiction. That person is decept.
David Beasley: He's caught in the act of, or
David Beasley: the snare, rather, of deception. And it's
David Beasley: not until God shows you the other
David Beasley: side of it, so you can see
David Beasley: it for what it truly is. So,
David Beasley: yeah, Peter's reminded us of, like, man,
David Beasley: like you said, like what Spurgeon said.
David Beasley: Small sips can lead to bondage and
David Beasley: can eventually lead to death. So, yeah,
David Beasley: having a proper view of that is
David Beasley: key. I think Peter showing us that
David Beasley: as well.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah. There was one part that was
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: like, I had to really think about
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: it, and, you know, I don't know
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: if my interpretation of it is. Is
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: correct or not, but. But this is
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: what I pulled out of it is
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: when Peter, he's listing sins that, you
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: know, we should stop doing. He talks
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: about orgies and idolatry, drunkenness, and he
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: says drunkenness and drinking parties. I was
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: like. What I was like is, that's
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: a.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Drinking party in 2025.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I was thinking, like, isn't that the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: same, Like, I. Like, I don't know
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: if I ever went to a drinking
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: party without getting drunk. And I don't
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: know if I was ever drunk without
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: it being a drinking party, even if
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the party was with just Me alone.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: But I was just like, what's the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: difference between. Like, he separates it, but
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: he makes it on equal playing. So
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I started thinking about this, and of
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: course, this is just my. My imagination,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: but I was like, drunkenness is the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: act of drinking, right? Drinking excessively. Like,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: too much to the point where you
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: lose all your, you know, train of
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: thought, right? You. You lose your mind
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: in the drink, and you, you know,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: you get drunk. And so I'm like,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: well, drinking parties, okay? So this is
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the act of being in a place
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: where sin exists. And so sin being
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the drinking, the drinking, or the drunkenness.
Ti'heasha Beasley: So it's sin. Is it a sin
Ti'heasha Beasley: to drink?
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: No, I'm. I'm not saying it's a
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: sin to drink, but I. I think
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the. The idea is being around drunkenness,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: okay? And so now we can interpret
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: this anyway. But for me, I think
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: it's being around drunkenness. And so for
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: me, it was just like. Because I
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: used to have these thoughts, especially, like,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: in college or as a young adult.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: It's like I could be at the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: party or with the group, as long
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: as I'm not doing the things that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: they are doing. And for me, Peter,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: put the act of the sin and
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: being around the sin on the same
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: plane. And I think it's just a
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: matter of caution. Like, we have to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: really caution ourselves. You know, the friends
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that we hang out, the social groups
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that we're in, the environments that we.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: In that we are not around. An
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: atmosphere of sin that could trip us
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: up and lead us down to, you
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: know, into the darkness of sin. So
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I thought that was fascinating that he
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: put those two together like that in
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the same line. And it could be
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: just my interpretation of it, but that's
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the thing that hit me. It's like
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: there's the act of being in sin,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: and then there is being in the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: atmosphere or the arena of sin that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: is as dangerous as actually doing the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: sin. So that was. That was deep
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: for me.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I mean, that could just go so
Ti'heasha Beasley: many different ways.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah, absolutely.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Because we. We know the big sins
Ti'heasha Beasley: that we talk about, but then we
Ti'heasha Beasley: have those. Those sins that people don't
Ti'heasha Beasley: like to identify as sins. It's just
Ti'heasha Beasley: my struggle. It's not a sin. It's
Ti'heasha Beasley: their struggle, or they're.
David Beasley: Or they're not engaging in it, even
David Beasley: though they're in the presence.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right, right. Because I used to go
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to a club all the time, and
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I used to be like, man, I'm
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: not. I'm not doing the things that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the people are here doing.
David Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: And it's like, maybe God don't want
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: me in the club because like I'm
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: on the. I'm, you know, on the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: line of being in sin or not
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: being in sin. It's like, why am
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I trying to get so close to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the line of sin? You know, why
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: am I trying to be in an
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: arena of sin? Like if I get
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: in the ring with the devil, I'm
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: gonna lose. Right. There's temptation, there's desire,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: there's human desire, human passion, as Peter
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: put it. So why would I want
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to get close to that?
Ti'heasha Beasley: So do you think it's personal to
Ti'heasha Beasley: a person or is it your own
Ti'heasha Beasley: conviction?
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah, I do think it's conviction of
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the Holy Spirit.
Ti'heasha Beasley: For me personally may not have the
Ti'heasha Beasley: same conviction as you. And you can't
Ti'heasha Beasley: call.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I think it's wise though, and I
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: think not to mess around.
David Beasley: Yeah, I think there's a principle here
David Beasley: that all of us can take from
David Beasley: it. Whether it's your conviction or not.
David Beasley: There's a. There's a principle that could
David Beasley: be applied. Some people sometimes walking in
David Beasley: wisdom doesn't always mean you're convicted by
David Beasley: something that you should avoid. You just
David Beasley: feel like it's wise to avoid it
David Beasley: because it just may give off a
David Beasley: certain perception towards.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Because we should be blameless.
David Beasley: Right. You may not even feel. You
David Beasley: may not feel like, man, this is
David Beasley: sin for me and wrong for me,
David Beasley: but it may give off the wrong
David Beasley: impression. So I don't want to. So
David Beasley: a few things came to mind with
David Beasley: what you said. One, like you said
David Beasley: you used to be in the club
David Beasley: and you know, we all used to
David Beasley: be in places we shouldn't have been
David Beasley: for the most part or wasn't really
David Beasley: good for us. And sometimes we got
David Beasley: to realize the reason why the place
David Beasley: is what it is is because the
David Beasley: people are doing what they're doing. So
David Beasley: it's a club, you know, not trying
David Beasley: to come. Anybody going to. But I'm
David Beasley: just being honest.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah, right, Absolutely.
David Beasley: It's a club because folks are getting
David Beasley: drunk.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Danc reason why I was there is
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: because I like to see all that.
David Beasley: I want to see it so now.
David Beasley: So that's what makes it what it
David Beasley: is. So I mean. And a lounge
David Beasley: is different than that to a certain
David Beasley: extent. Yeah. Like if you go to
David Beasley: a lounge, this is kind of different
David Beasley: based. I'm just saying they're different. They
David Beasley: are layers, there are levels, there are
David Beasley: certain.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: It's a reason.
David Beasley: Cuz look, when a person opens a
David Beasley: business, it's based that the name of
David Beasley: it is Based on the activity. So
David Beasley: whatever's happening there, that's what you should
David Beasley: see when you walk in, you walk
David Beasley: into a certain type of restaurant, you
David Beasley: don't expect it to be a club.
David Beasley: It's like I thought this. So that's
David Beasley: one thing. Another thing is, am I
David Beasley: enjoying the downfall of everyone around me?
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yes.
David Beasley: Even though I'm not participating, I'm like,
David Beasley: I'm not drinking. But look at that
David Beasley: person throwing up in the corner. And
David Beasley: look at them over there doing that.
David Beasley: And look at that. Is our heart
David Beasley: broken for the sin that we see
David Beasley: others committing? And as the same reason
David Beasley: we're not participating because of the same
David Beasley: guy we know and the same consequences
David Beasley: of sin, the same hell that we
David Beasley: could face if we weren't believers and
David Beasley: all those things, it's the same results
David Beasley: that other people would face as well
David Beasley: if they don't repent.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: In terms of man, my heart was
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: not broken. I was partying.
David Beasley: Yeah, that's something to consider too. And
David Beasley: there's one more thing.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Go ahead.
David Beasley: I'm sorry, host.
Ti'heasha Beasley: No, I'm a. No, go ahead.
David Beasley: Okay. One more thing. When you mentioned
David Beasley: drunkenness and drinking parties, it seemed like
David Beasley: Peter is differentiating to a certain extent.
David Beasley: I think he's differentiating between individual activity
David Beasley: and communal activity.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah.
David Beasley: So it's like drunkenness is wrong. Even
David Beasley: when you at home by yourself, nobody's
David Beasley: around. It's just you watching tv, Nobody
David Beasley: will ever know. And you drunk as
David Beasley: a skunk and you wake up in
David Beasley: your lazy Boy, like, what happened? And
David Beasley: nobody knows it. Then you go out
David Beasley: and you a believer and everybody see
David Beasley: he's a faithful man of God and
David Beasley: nobody ever would knew he was getting
David Beasley: drunk or she was getting drunk behind
David Beasley: closed doors, Peter is saying, that's not
David Beasley: okay because God sees it and your
David Beasley: body's a temple. You gotta treat it
David Beasley: right. And then communal, of course, with
David Beasley: everybody have turned up in a party.
David Beasley: So I think he was showing the
David Beasley: difference between, like whether you're by yourself
David Beasley: or you and your homies.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: That's good.
David Beasley: In either instance, drunkenness, not drinking necessarily.
David Beasley: I know people wanna debate, but drunkenness
David Beasley: for sure is not. Okay. Yeah, you
David Beasley: were gonna say something. I'm sorry.
Ti'heasha Beasley: No, I was just gonna say. And
Ti'heasha Beasley: maybe I like to get very logistical
Ti'heasha Beasley: with things. What if you are at
Ti'heasha Beasley: a family gathering and they're drinking, so
Ti'heasha Beasley: you're. Now you're that holier than thou
Ti'heasha Beasley: cousin. That's not good. Like, I'm gonna
Ti'heasha Beasley: get these. This food. I'm leave. Because
Ti'heasha Beasley: y' all drinking here. So my. So
Ti'heasha Beasley: my thing Is like, there is a
Ti'heasha Beasley: Peter. I love first Peter. I love
Ti'heasha Beasley: that he lays out things. But I
Ti'heasha Beasley: feel like you. I meet a lot
Ti'heasha Beasley: of new believers who are. Who believe,
Ti'heasha Beasley: who operate in works. Like, I have
Ti'heasha Beasley: to. I'm so scared of everything that
Ti'heasha Beasley: I can't live. You know, like, it's
Ti'heasha Beasley: like. So there is a thing of
Ti'heasha Beasley: works that is a play in this
Ti'heasha Beasley: too. And there is a thing of,
Ti'heasha Beasley: like, personal conviction. So. And then, because
Ti'heasha Beasley: we could get. We are all sinners,
Ti'heasha Beasley: like, saved by grace. And we are.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Like, this verse even talks about sin.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: And fall as short of the grace.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Right. And we are. Nobody's perfect yet.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Right. So even though you don't have
Ti'heasha Beasley: struggles as other people, like, we could
Ti'heasha Beasley: get very. Like, it can become. So
Ti'heasha Beasley: now you're saying I can't be around
Ti'heasha Beasley: people who. I got friends. I'm not
Ti'heasha Beasley: saying I got friends who lie, but
Ti'heasha Beasley: I'm saying let's get down to the
Ti'heasha Beasley: little. The little sins. Now. I can't
Ti'heasha Beasley: be in spaces with people who got.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Who.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Who full of pride. You know, that's
Ti'heasha Beasley: a sin. So let's get to the.
Ti'heasha Beasley: The nitty gritty of it.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah, but it's not as far as
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: works go. We're not. We're not living
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: a righteous life in order to be
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: saved because we're saved. We want to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: live a life of holiness to be
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: more like Jesus. And so we're not.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: We're not. We're not living a life
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to. For the goal of salvation, because
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: we have salvation. We want the goal
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: of holiness to be more like Christ.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: And I think we just know, like,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: you know, Thanksgiving's coming up. You know,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: we got some wild cousins, some uncles
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: who like to get ripped. We know
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: where the line is as far as
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the conviction of the Holy Spirit, maybe
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to tell you, okay, they're going to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: a different level of partying, and it's
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: time for you to exit. And I
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: think that's okay. I think you can
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: be with your family and gather and
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: party with them until you get to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the place where you say, okay, I
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: know that this is going too far.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: And then you might need to say,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: all right, guys, I think that's it
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: for me. Let me pack up my
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: turkey and bounce, you know?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: So I do think you still need
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to guard yourself from being in environments
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: of sin, even if it's with people
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that's close to you. But I wouldn't
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: say, don't go to Thanksgiving because you
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: know your family's ratchet.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Well, some people will go that far,
Ti'heasha Beasley: whereas that might be Separation.
David Beasley: Those are case by. That's case by
David Beasley: case scenario.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: It has to be case by case.
David Beasley: People, different families are different. Different levels,
David Beasley: different levels of ratchetness can be different
David Beasley: depending on that family and the family.
David Beasley: It's just different. And, yeah, people go
David Beasley: to different situations, have different experiences in
David Beasley: family. One thing I would say, I
David Beasley: think Peter even addressed that. He says
David Beasley: they malign you because you don't participate
David Beasley: in the same type of activity that
David Beasley: they do. So it's almost expected. Now,
David Beasley: scripture tells us we should not be
David Beasley: judgmental when it comes to condemning others,
David Beasley: shouldn't think we're better than anybody. But
David Beasley: at the same time, those. Those type
David Beasley: of accusations of us being better than
David Beasley: others or looking like we're more superior,
David Beasley: those accusations come with the. They almost
David Beasley: come with the. With the territory. When
David Beasley: you follow Christ, there are some. No
David Beasley: matter how. How well you walk it
David Beasley: out, how loving you are, how gracious
David Beasley: you are, no matter how much you
David Beasley: explain, this is where I'm at with
David Beasley: this. I love y', all, but you
David Beasley: know me, God, you know, I just.
David Beasley: I just can't. You know, God has
David Beasley: got me doing this, but I love
David Beasley: y'.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: All.
David Beasley: Hey, let's. There are some people that
David Beasley: was literally still treat you like you're
David Beasley: treating them like they're beneath you simply
David Beasley: because of who you are and who
David Beasley: you name, the name that you name,
David Beasley: and who you claim to follow. So
David Beasley: Peter even addressed that, letting us know,
David Beasley: like, some people will do that, but
David Beasley: following God and honoring his ways clearly
David Beasley: is the better choice, regardless of what
David Beasley: people say and do. But it's tough.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I mean, and I.
David Beasley: And how that looks is different.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I only bring that up because, like,
Ti'heasha Beasley: that's kind of like my background. Like,
Ti'heasha Beasley: I was brought up in a very
Ti'heasha Beasley: strict home where we couldn't do anything.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Like, everything was. That's it. That's it.
Ti'heasha Beasley: We couldn't even have toys that were
Ti'heasha Beasley: owls because it was a sand. Like,
Ti'heasha Beasley: the toy was the sand.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Ow.
David Beasley: Why they thought the owl was. It
David Beasley: could turn his head all the way
David Beasley: around and turn it back around.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: It's called the. The Anatomy of the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Bird. The species. I know. I'm just
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: saying.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I know God made it.
David Beasley: Listen, this. This was so real.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: God made the owl and that.
David Beasley: She used to be like, don't get
David Beasley: that. It was like a toy. This
David Beasley: was early on in marriage. We married
David Beasley: for almost 15 years. Early on, it
David Beasley: was like, we don't mess with owls.
David Beasley: I'd be like, why not? I was
David Beasley: just raised. I was like, God made
David Beasley: the owl unique. The owl could Just
David Beasley: turn his head360 and turn it back.
David Beasley: But I was just raised and then
David Beasley: somehow connected to, you know, maybe it
David Beasley: is strict upbringing.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And my parents, they are amazing. Love
Ti'heasha Beasley: God, serve the Lord, you know, to
Ti'heasha Beasley: this day. And I know they did
Ti'heasha Beasley: their very best, like all parents do.
Ti'heasha Beasley: But I was just like, I had
Ti'heasha Beasley: to. Had to kind of unlearn some
Ti'heasha Beasley: things because my relationship with God was.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It was out of fear. You know
Ti'heasha Beasley: what I mean? It was like fear
Ti'heasha Beasley: of doing something wrong, fear of being
Ti'heasha Beasley: around in the wrong place. Just fear.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And so, like, now, as a believer
Ti'heasha Beasley: who love God and I have a
Ti'heasha Beasley: relationship where I have discernment and I'm
Ti'heasha Beasley: able to see like, okay, you're not
Ti'heasha Beasley: going to the club. You know what
Ti'heasha Beasley: I mean? People, my friends don't even
Ti'heasha Beasley: my. I won't say my friends, but
Ti'heasha Beasley: people, if they have things out, I'd
Ti'heasha Beasley: be like, y' all didn't invite me.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Oh, we know you ain't coming. So
Ti'heasha Beasley: I'm just glad they know that I
Ti'heasha Beasley: ain't gonna be there.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: But that's terrible. You don't get invited.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I don't get invited, and I'm okay.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I don't get the side eye like
Ti'heasha Beasley: you said yesterday. I don't give the
Ti'heasha Beasley: side eye, and it's. It's okay. But
Ti'heasha Beasley: I do like you. I just feel
Ti'heasha Beasley: like you just have to be a
Ti'heasha Beasley: little careful sometimes, because people can go
Ti'heasha Beasley: too far with the checklist of things,
Ti'heasha Beasley: and you definitely have.
David Beasley: To check your heart. I would say
David Beasley: motives and intentions of everybody matters. So
David Beasley: we can't read everybody's motives and intentions,
David Beasley: and people's motives and intentions could be
David Beasley: misunderstood, misread, and things like that. But
David Beasley: we should approach situations with the heart
David Beasley: posture of I'm not better than you.
David Beasley: I just. I know my proclivities. I
David Beasley: know why I can fall. I know
David Beasley: that my witness matters. And I just
David Beasley: don't want to give off a certain
David Beasley: perception. And maybe if we can communicate
David Beasley: that with the individuals that we. That
David Beasley: are close to us, our family, friends,
David Beasley: and things like that, I feel like
David Beasley: they would be more understanding because I
David Beasley: feel like sometimes the church, some folks
David Beasley: in the church, I don't like saying
David Beasley: a broad brush painting with a broad
David Beasley: brush. But some individuals in the church
David Beasley: can kind of like, just do things
David Beasley: with no explanation. It just looks like
David Beasley: we're condemning or judgmental instead of, like,
David Beasley: having a real conversation. An individual say,
David Beasley: this is why I am with this.
David Beasley: This is why I stand, and this
David Beasley: is why I do what I do.
David Beasley: It's not that I'm Better. It's just
David Beasley: that this. What God did for me,
David Beasley: and I just feel like the Lord
David Beasley: is leading me. And you may not
David Beasley: understand it.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That's good.
David Beasley: But just want, you know, that's what
David Beasley: it is. They may still look at
David Beasley: you like you're silly, but I think
David Beasley: nowadays folks will respect that more because
David Beasley: it's just not known for believers to
David Beasley: do stuff like that. You know, when
David Beasley: it comes to these.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Subjects, I think it's always good to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: be cautious. Like, there's nothing wrong with
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that as long as you have to,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: you know, the right heart behind it.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: You're not saying that you're, you know,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: holier than thou. You're better than anybody.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: But being cautious is better than finding
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: out on the back end, you know,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that you can't handle being in certain
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: environments. I'd rather you be cautious on
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the extreme side than to, you know,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: lose the caution or not have guardrails
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: in your life and find out that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: you can't, you know, tolerate certain environments
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: and you fall into sin yourself. And
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: so, like, I know that it's, you
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: know, you kind of limit your lifestyle
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: and you limit the things that you
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: allow yourself to do, but I'd rather,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: you know, people be cautious on that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: end than to fall into sin. But
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: people who do it because, you know,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: they just feel like there's a strictness
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: in the lifestyle of being a believer
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to the point where they are completely,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: completely. They've completely removed relationships from them.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I think that could be a little
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: extreme. I don't want anybody to lose
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: relationships. I actually want people to gain
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: relationships because they're a believer, because people
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: need a witness. People need somebody to.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: To have a reflection of their own
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: life.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That's true.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: And so it's not for you to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: completely eliminate relationships. You just have to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: know what environments you can be in
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: and what environments you can be in.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That's good. Yeah. So I know, going
Ti'heasha Beasley: back to the. I love this discussion.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It's really good. But going back to
Ti'heasha Beasley: the top of the message, when it
Ti'heasha Beasley: talked about suffering like Christ is, is
Ti'heasha Beasley: that in fighting your temptations, or is
Ti'heasha Beasley: this a just standing on truth type
Ti'heasha Beasley: of suffering? Like, which suffering is.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah, I think, you know, one thing
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I did with that is I wanted
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to make sure that people didn't think
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that Peter was trying to equate what
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Jesus went through and what we went
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: through. And I mentioned this to the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: audience. I said, we're not. No one
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: here is being crucified for the sins
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: of the world. But what I was
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: trying to make a Comparison to is
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that Jesus suffered for the victory of
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: humanity, and we need to suffer to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: have victory over sin. And Jesus gives
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: us the formula to follow the pattern,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to follow the blueprint on how to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: be victorious over the things that you
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: go through. And I used love. I
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: said, Jesus loved us so much that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: he was able to face the cross.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: And I want that to be a
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: reflection on us. Do we love Jesus
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: enough to fight the temptations of our
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: sin? And that's the parallel that I
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: wanted to have with the trials that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Jesus went through and what we went
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: through. It's not equating what you know,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: what Jesus, you know, Jesus versus me.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: The things that I go through are
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: as bad as being crucified and having
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the weight of the sins of the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: world on my shoulders. Like, I'll never
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: experience that. But I can follow the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: pattern that Jesus had in overcoming what
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: he went through and having victory for
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: humanity. And I think that we need
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to adopt that same pattern. Is that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: it's love. Like, do we love our
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Savior enough to stop messing around with
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the passions, the human passions, as Peter
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: puts it. Like, how much do we
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: love Jesus? Do we love Jesus enough
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to stop doing the things that we're
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: doing?
Ti'heasha Beasley: That's good.
David Beasley: I'll even add the importance of understanding
David Beasley: what he accomplished and what he provided
David Beasley: for us that gives us the ability
David Beasley: to say no to those passions.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right?
David Beasley: Because Jesus didn't just die. And that's
David Beasley: it. He equipped us. So, like, when
David Beasley: he died, he said, I must go
David Beasley: in John, he said, I must go
David Beasley: so the comforter can come.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: If I said, it's better that I.
David Beasley: Leave, it's better that I leave so
David Beasley: that the comforter will come who's just
David Beasley: like me. He's. He's equal to me.
David Beasley: And he will be with you always.
David Beasley: And he will lead you into all
David Beasley: truth, and he will convict the world
David Beasley: of sin and righteousness, and he will
David Beasley: empower you. And that's the thing. Understanding
David Beasley: Peter is. Like I said, Peter was
David Beasley: there for that conversation. So Peter understands
David Beasley: fully. Like, there's better results and there's
David Beasley: a better plan, and you have more
David Beasley: power and you equip more than you
David Beasley: could ever know if you simply submit
David Beasley: to what Jesus has done and use
David Beasley: him as the example of his suffering
David Beasley: and realizing that your suffering will not
David Beasley: be in vain. And in fact, you
David Beasley: can endure it in such a way
David Beasley: that you would never imagine because he
David Beasley: has equipped you to do so. And
David Beasley: he promised that. And Peter knows what
David Beasley: it. Like, what it feels. Yeah, Peter,
David Beasley: I still. I'm Confused with Paul again.
David Beasley: Peter knows what it feels like to
David Beasley: endure suffering. He knows this. Peter understands
David Beasley: he was persecuted and arrested and everything
David Beasley: else when the early church started. Recognizing
David Beasley: what we have access to in light
David Beasley: of what Jesus suffered to do is
David Beasley: something that we can't ignore. It's not
David Beasley: like Jesus said, you know, you're going
David Beasley: to go through what you're going to
David Beasley: go through. And Peter says, okay, suffer
David Beasley: like a good soldier. Suffer because Jesus
David Beasley: did, but you're on your own. No,
David Beasley: he equips us with the ability. Scripture
David Beasley: tells us he has given us everything
David Beasley: we need that pertains to life and
David Beasley: godliness. I think Peter said that in
David Beasley: maybe second Peter maybe. Yeah, Peter says
David Beasley: in second Peter that he has given
David Beasley: us everything we need to live a
David Beasley: godly life or everything we need that
David Beasley: pertains to life and godliness. So in
David Beasley: other words, Peter is saying there's no
David Beasley: excuse. You have everything that you can
David Beasley: ever need to endure. And the minute
David Beasley: we understand that and tap into that,
David Beasley: so it's not just head knowledge, but
David Beasley: it takes residence in our heart and
David Beasley: then it's seen through our actions. So
David Beasley: just understanding what God accomplished in Christ
David Beasley: when he died on that cross and
David Beasley: what he gave us the ability to
David Beasley: do based on his spirit too, that's
David Beasley: important. That will help us suffer well
David Beasley: as well. That makes sense.
Ti'heasha Beasley: So no, that was good. So like,
Ti'heasha Beasley: just thinking about your overall message yesterday.
Ti'heasha Beasley: What do you feel like your key
Ti'heasha Beasley: takeaways were for, like, application purposes?
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Geez. Application.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yes.
David Beasley: How do I know People walk away?
Ti'heasha Beasley: How do they watch this?
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah. So I think, you know, going
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: back to Peter's writing, he had a
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: lot of things. I couldn't say that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: he had one points. And again, we're
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: looking at chapter four and he didn't
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: write it with chapters. So the letter
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: is just written out.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: And so we're taking a segment of
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the letter and trying to find a
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: theme for that part of it, which
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: is very difficult to do. But Peter
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: does jump around a lot and a
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: few things that he tells us, you
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: know, he tells us not to live
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: a life in sin. So that's one
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: major application. I think another application is
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: just the awareness that you are a
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: disciple of Christ when the world brings
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: you hostility. I think that just level
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: of understanding that I am on the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: right path in my life, even with
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: opposition from the world, being persecuted from
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the world, I can rest assured that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I am on the right path in
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: following Jesus because that hostility is the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: evidence that I have the spirit of
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: God with me and that I am
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: on the right track. And being a
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: disciple of Christ. And so having that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: awareness is an application. And I think
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the second half of the letter, Peter
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: really goes into love. You know, the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: first half of chapter four, he talks
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: about what we should not do. In
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the second half of chapter four, he
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: goes into what we should do. And
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that's to love our neighbors. And it
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: really piggybacks off of, in light of
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the end times, how should we live
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: holiness? With godliness. We should love the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: people around us. Especially since we're going,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I said this in a sermon, we're
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: going to spend eternity with each other.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Let's get a jump start on loving
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: each other now and serving each other.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: The. The gifts that God has given
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: us is not for us to hoard,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: but for us to share with the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: kingdom of God, for us to share
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: with our neighbors, to share with each
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: other. And I think that's a really
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: good application because we could look at
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: this and say, okay, what about me?
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right? Okay, I need to, you know,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: stop having the desires of sin. I
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: need to fight temptation in myself. I
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: need to go through these trials. I
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: need to look at how the world
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: is hostile to me. But then it's
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: like, okay, well, what needs to come
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: out of me to the people around
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: me? And that's the gifts that God
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: has given us. And the foundation of
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that is love. We have to love
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: our neighbors. Peter talks about serving. He
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: talks about teaching and encouraging. We have
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to love the people around us. And
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: then he says it, like I mentioned,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that he stops and give a praise
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: break in the middle of the chapter.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: That when he talks about serving our
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: neighbors, he says, so God could get
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the glory. And I said this like,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the gift that we have comes from
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: God to us. And then the fruit
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: of that gift gets utilized to share
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: and serve the kingdom and the people
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: around us so that he can get
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the glory. And that's the pattern that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: we need to live by. Our gifts
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that we have come from God. We
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: use that to help others around us
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: so that he can get the glory.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: And also mention that we think of
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: gifts as things that are positive that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: we have, but also the things that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: we have gone through in life, the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: trials that we've gone through in life
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: is a gift that we have that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: we can share with others. Because we've
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: been through some things in life. We've
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: been through some traumas, some pains, some
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: heartaches, some hardships that we can, that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: God has helped deliver us from. And
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that testimony will bless somebody. Not only
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the hardships that we went through, but
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: how we've overcome sin in ourselves. We've
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: overcome some sin, some strongholds, that that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: testimony would be something that we can
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: utilize to bless others. And so I
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: like how Peter shifts the focus. And
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the application would be, okay, there is
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: sin that I need to stop doing
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: in my life. But what do I
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: have now that can bless the kingdom?
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: That helps.
David Beasley: That answers a lot of questions, I
David Beasley: think, and a lot of issues that
David Beasley: people deal with when it comes to
David Beasley: seasons of life where they're dealing with
David Beasley: trials, struggles, doubts, setbacks, is this passage
David Beasley: encourages them and encourages me to not
David Beasley: have pity parties. And this is why
David Beasley: I say that. Because a lot of
David Beasley: times when we go through something, it's
David Beasley: all woe. Was me. I'm not getting
David Beasley: anything out of life. I'm not getting
David Beasley: anything out of my church. Oh, my
David Beasley: life is hard. Everything is. But I
David Beasley: was reading a book years ago, and
David Beasley: I bring this up multiple times to
David Beasley: multiple people. A book about marriage, I
David Beasley: think, by John Piper. And it was
David Beasley: talking about. It's kind of a tongue
David Beasley: twister, kind of. But he said finding.
David Beasley: Finding delight in the delight of your
David Beasley: beloved. And what that means is you
David Beasley: get delight and you get joy and
David Beasley: you get happiness and all the good
David Beasley: feels from serving and loving your spouse
David Beasley: and seeing how it affects them and
David Beasley: encourages them and builds them up. And
David Beasley: now all of a sudden, you feel
David Beasley: encouraged and built up. And it's the
David Beasley: principle of taking the eye off you
David Beasley: and putting it on somebody else and
David Beasley: helping somebody and how that even though
David Beasley: your situation still may be what it
David Beasley: is, there's a different aspect of joy
David Beasley: and peace. And you see God starting
David Beasley: to use you in different ways and
David Beasley: in different avenues because you chose to
David Beasley: step out of yourself to serve and
David Beasley: love somebody else. So I think Peter
David Beasley: is highlighting how important that is. Like,
David Beasley: yeah, you're suffering and going through, but
David Beasley: you're not the only one.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right? Right.
David Beasley: Your brother and sister is too. Somebody
David Beasley: else needs your testimony. Somebody else needs
David Beasley: that. Your helping hand. Somebody else needs
David Beasley: your love. So how about you step
David Beasley: outside of yourself like Jesus did? Because
David Beasley: Jesus is the ultimate example. In fact,
David Beasley: his whole purpose of suffering had everything
David Beasley: to do with all of us, had
David Beasley: nothing to do with anything he did
David Beasley: or needed. It had everything to do
David Beasley: with what we did and what we
David Beasley: needed, which is forgiveness, salvation, and hope,
David Beasley: which is what Jesus provided. His suffering
David Beasley: was. His suffering literally was accomplished and.
David Beasley: And was purposeful because it was for
David Beasley: our benefit. So how do we. How
David Beasley: do we cause our suffering to benefit
David Beasley: someone else? We can use it to
David Beasley: Help push us towards service, love and
David Beasley: utilizing gifts, tapping into gifts that we
David Beasley: didn't even know we have. A lot
David Beasley: of times we won't even know we
David Beasley: had them until we step out and
David Beasley: serve.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right.
David Beasley: We don't even know you had the
David Beasley: ability to witness. You didn't know you
David Beasley: had such a servant heart. You didn't
David Beasley: know you had such a gift to
David Beasley: be hospitable and loving and giving and
David Beasley: gracious.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Why?
David Beasley: Because you didn't step out and walk
David Beasley: in it. Then God shows you that.
David Beasley: And sometimes God uses suffering to take
David Beasley: the eyes off of us and put
David Beasley: it on somebody else. And then he
David Beasley: shows up in a way we couldn't
David Beasley: have imagined. I think Peter is really
David Beasley: highlighting the importance of not having a
David Beasley: pity party, taking your eyes off you,
David Beasley: putting it on other people.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: And God's efficient. He's not gonna be.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: He's not gonna waste what he's given
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: us. It's not that we can't utilize
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: it for ourselves or he doesn't love
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: us, but he really wants to advance
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the kingdom of heaven. He wants people
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to share what he has given them
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: so that we can be a blessing
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: for each other. He's just not going
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to waste the gifts that he's given
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: you, how he's delivered you. He's helped
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: you overcome the battles that you have
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: in your life. He wants to utilize
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that. It's a blessing for you that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: you've come out of that. But he
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: wants to use it to bless his
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: other children as well.
David Beasley: Y that's true.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I like how yesterday you brought talk,
Ti'heasha Beasley: talked about the coming, the end. Cuz
Ti'heasha Beasley: it was in the Jesus is coming.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Jesus is coming. But you made, you
Ti'heasha Beasley: kind of made Jesus.
David Beasley: September 22nd already passed 23rd, 23rd I
David Beasley: thought was two days. I thought it
David Beasley: was 22nd and 23rd.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I don't even know 23rd. 20. I
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: didn't even hear the original prophecy.
David Beasley: I did, but oh Lord, it was
David Beasley: so.
Ti'heasha Beasley: So I. I've been saying on the
Ti'heasha Beasley: podcast how Peter, like this whole book
Ti'heasha Beasley: is so relevant to what's going on
Ti'heasha Beasley: now in the world. So that is
Ti'heasha Beasley: just crazy that that was brought up
Ti'heasha Beasley: because this is, it's still fresh. This
Ti'heasha Beasley: is a week old or a couple
Ti'heasha Beasley: weeks old, for the record.
David Beasley: He is coming.
Ti'heasha Beasley: He is coming.
David Beasley: Definitely.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: We just think about it. Peter in
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: 63 AD is looking for Jesus to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: come. He said, Jesus is coming soon.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: That was 2,000 years ago.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And it makes me think about how,
Ti'heasha Beasley: you know, how people be like, oh,
Ti'heasha Beasley: the world is so bad. Jesus is
Ti'heasha Beasley: coming back. Clearly the world was so
Ti'heasha Beasley: bad when Peter wrote this book. So.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yes. I mean, like, and. And Jesus
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: says, you know, we. We need to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: be watching the signs, not just the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: weather. Like, we can predict the weather,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: but. And it's like, there's a lot
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: of times in human history where it
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: was so bad on earth that you
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: could say, man, Jesus is.
Ti'heasha Beasley: He gotta be.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: He gotta be coming back today. Like,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: under the Roman rule, it was. It
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: got so bad for. For believers.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: And then you think about other times
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: in humanity's history. You know, you got
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the plague, you got World War I,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: World War II. Like, it's just been
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: a lot of bad things that have
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: happened in humanity where you. You look
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: and say, it can't get any worse
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: than this. Yeah.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I'm sitting here thinking, like, why do
Ti'heasha Beasley: we say that so freely now? Like,
Ti'heasha Beasley: what's so bad about. I mean, it's
Ti'heasha Beasley: bad.
David Beasley: I think every generation has his. Has.
David Beasley: Has his reasons to believe Jesus is
David Beasley: going to come in that generation. And
David Beasley: I think each sign is a sign
David Beasley: that points to the fact that he
David Beasley: will return one day. So we're not.
David Beasley: We're not saying he won't. We're not
David Beasley: moc that at all. We. We believe
David Beasley: he said he will, but he also
David Beasley: said when he does, every eye will
David Beasley: see him and behold him. And he
David Beasley: also said when somebody says, hey, he's
David Beasley: over there, or, hey, he's over there,
David Beasley: do not believe. Because he said, no
David Beasley: man knows the hour of the day.
David Beasley: Nobody knows. So we don't listen to
David Beasley: anybody who says they do. But what
David Beasley: we do is we wait in. In
David Beasley: eager expectation. And one thing that was
David Beasley: highlighted was the fact that in the
David Beasley: midst of waiting for his return, we
David Beasley: do what Pastor Carlton just said, which
David Beasley: is what Peter said. We serve and
David Beasley: love one another waiting for his return.
David Beasley: In fact, we should be talking about
David Beasley: his return a little bit more often.
David Beasley: Peter said, Paul said, encourage one another.
David Beasley: First Thessalonians, I think, encourage one another
David Beasley: with these words about his second coming.
David Beasley: That's an encouraging thing to know, man,
David Beasley: one day he will return. But I've
David Beasley: heard some people say that sometimes thinking
David Beasley: about the return of Christ causes them
David Beasley: to have an escapism mentality and say,
David Beasley: oh, I just want to get up
David Beasley: out of here. And we need to
David Beasley: avoid that. Even though it's okay to
David Beasley: say Marinette, I get it.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Listen, even so, come Lord Jesus, an
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: extreme case.
Ti'heasha Beasley: He admitted to it yesterday.
David Beasley: Yeah, in extreme case is what I'm
David Beasley: talking about. Because we all should have
David Beasley: a healthy dose of God of wanting
David Beasley: him. Come on back Jesus, come get
David Beasley: us out of here. Marinette to come.
David Beasley: Lord Jesus, quickly. We should have that.
David Beasley: But also because what Paul said. I'm
David Beasley: talking about Paul right now in Thessalonians,
David Beasley: about how people were waiting and they
David Beasley: just became busybodies and didn't do anything
David Beasley: because they said, oh, he's coming, so
David Beasley: what's the point of anything?
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Right?
David Beasley: We should avoid that as well and
David Beasley: be fruitful for the kingdom. But don't
David Beasley: get it twisted. We should still look
David Beasley: forward to his coming, but we should
David Beasley: be actively obedient and loving our neighbors
David Beasley: and honoring God as we wait. So,
David Beasley: yeah, but it is a hope that's
David Beasley: coming.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yeah. And it's twofold, too. We are
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: looking at the calamities of the world
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: as signs of his return. But he
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: also said that the Gospel will be
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: preached to the four corners of the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: earth. And so we can't just look
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: at the wars that we're dealing with
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: or the hostility of the world to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: believers. We also got to say, how
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: are we evangelizing the world? Because it's
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: not just the one thing that is,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: you know, the prerequisite for his return.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: We also have to spread the gospel
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to the four corners of the earth.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: And so I think we can't just
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: be looking at it like, okay, well,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: how bad is the world today in
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: comparison to human history? We also got
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to look at how much are we
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: spreading the gospel compared to human history.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: And I think that's important for us
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to realize. We can't just be sitting
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: back inactive, waiting for his return. We
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: have to be proactive waiting for his
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: return. And that's spreading the good news
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: of Jesus Christ.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That's good. Do you think? And it's
Ti'heasha Beasley: kind of like my final question before
Ti'heasha Beasley: we go into takeaways, but this could
Ti'heasha Beasley: be a pretty full. First of all,
Ti'heasha Beasley: Reuben, I see all of the.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Ruben, you want us to lean a
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: plane? We not leaning the plane.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Ruby, my last question.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: You got time, Reuben, man. Ruben. Hey,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Dang Ministries. Happening, Rue.
David Beasley: Like, why I'm catching these strays? I'm
David Beasley: just chilling.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Nah, we did have tacos today.
Ti'heasha Beasley: We did. We had tacos.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Why we do the podcast after?
David Beasley: Shout out to Ben and Jenny.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yes.
David Beasley: If y' all watching this. Which camera?
David Beasley: Which camera? I don't know, but they
David Beasley: were delicious.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: That's why the mood is the itis.
Ti'heasha Beasley: We holding on.
David Beasley: Woo, Child.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Taco Monday.
David Beasley: Some of the best tacos ever.
Ti'heasha Beasley: No, I actually was looking at you.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Cause I was choking and no one
Ti'heasha Beasley: looked up. And I was like, they
Ti'heasha Beasley: didn't throw.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: You A water or anything. I ain't
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: wanna.
David Beasley: I ain't wanna be bootleg podcast and.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Tossing over here, like.
David Beasley: Cause I'm looking like Carlton's in the
David Beasley: middle of a deep, thick.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Carlton's like, yeah, you know, listen, Pastor
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Brent isn't here. We can do whatever
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: we want on this podcast.
David Beasley: She's over there choking. I'm looking at
David Beasley: her like, oh, Lord. And then I
David Beasley: glanced over to the left like, does
David Beasley: anybody see my wife?
Ti'heasha Beasley: I was so happy Pastor Cross and
Ti'heasha Beasley: was giving his well thought out. Cause
Ti'heasha Beasley: I was over here choking, and.
David Beasley: I already said, I'm gonna pick it
David Beasley: right up. When he stopped talking so
David Beasley: she can clear her.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Pastor Bryne gonna be watching this podcast
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: on his flight back from Davao, and
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: he gonna be like, I'm never leaving
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: church again.
Ti'heasha Beasley: No, leave it to us. We got
Ti'heasha Beasley: it.
David Beasley: That's probably like, how did David get
David Beasley: my seat?
Ti'heasha Beasley: What's up, pb?
David Beasley: Pb Love you, bro. Love ya, sir.
David Beasley: Love you.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Okay. You had a question.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I did. My final kind of question.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Off the rails.
Ti'heasha Beasley: No, it was. This is good. This
Ti'heasha Beasley: is a good conversation. But do you
Ti'heasha Beasley: feel like when Peter wrote this, do
Ti'heasha Beasley: you think his objective was to, I
Ti'heasha Beasley: don't want to say teach perfectionism. And
Ti'heasha Beasley: of course I know the answer to
Ti'heasha Beasley: this, but I'm asking it for people
Ti'heasha Beasley: who may be watching this. And they're
Ti'heasha Beasley: saying, man, the last four weeks, y'
Ti'heasha Beasley: all been telling me all the stuff
Ti'heasha Beasley: I could not do, especially Pastor Jerry.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Last week, Pastor Jerry was on fire.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Right. So do you think it's achievable
Ti'heasha Beasley: to have a sinless life?
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: No.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Okay. Of course I know the answer.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: You mean to expand this.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I just want you to expound like,
Ti'heasha Beasley: yes.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: No, because if that was the case,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: we wouldn't need Jesus. I think that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: we need to strive for holiness.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That's good.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Like, we need to put forth 120%
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: effort to be holy, allow the Holy
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Spirit to work in us, to sanctify
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: us.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That's good.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: We've been justified now sanctification needs to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: happen. And I. And I think that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: is. That's our goal. Like, to be
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: without sin is impossible for us, or
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: we wouldn't need a redeemer who came
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: and was without sin and died for
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: our sins. But I do think that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: we can get to a place where
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: sin doesn't affect our lives anymore. Sin
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: is not the driver of our thoughts
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: or our desires, where holiness becomes such
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: a way of thinking and a way
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: of life, that the thought of sin
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: or the action of sin is not
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: paramount in our lives anymore. I can't
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: say that we will be completely without
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: sin because we still live in this.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: This body. What did Paul call it?
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Old wretched man that I am, you
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: know, who will deliver me from the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: body of this death. So I think
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that because as long as we're wearing
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: this flesh, we are. We have the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: proclivity to sin. But I think that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: holiness is what we should be striving
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: for. God is not looking for us
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to be without sin. He's looking for
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: us to be covered with the blood
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: of Jesus, who was without sin. I
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: think he's looking for us to be
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: like Jesus in the pursuit of holiness.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: And so I think that we have
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to live. I had a preacher when
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I was at Oru in chapel. This
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: preacher said, you know, can you live
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: a year without sin? And everyone's like,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: no, you can't live a year without
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: sin. Can you live a month without
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: sin and a week and then a
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: day? He's like, no, I probably can't
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: go a day without some kind of
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: sin. He was like, can you go
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: five minutes without sinning? And we were
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: like, yeah, we can go five minutes
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: without sinning. Maybe. He's like, okay, live
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: your life five minutes at a time.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: So there needs to be an effort
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to not be in sin or not
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: live in sin. And our effort should
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: be towards holiness. But it would be
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: very difficult for me to say, impossible
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: for me to say that you can
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: live a life without sin completely, because
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: like David said, you can't ransom yourself.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: You know, we can't redeem ourselves from
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: this life. So, yeah, I think that's
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: my answer.
Ti'heasha Beasley: The godless holiness.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I like that, David.
David Beasley: I completely agree. And I even add
David Beasley: to it. You mentioned what Paul said
David Beasley: as Romans 7, When Paul was talking
David Beasley: about the good I want to do,
David Beasley: I don't do. And sometimes the good
David Beasley: the what I don't want to do,
David Beasley: what I hate to do, I do.
David Beasley: And that shows it's not me necessarily
David Beasley: do it, but it's sin in my
David Beasley: members. This is Paul. It's in my
David Beasley: members. And he says, oh, wretched man
David Beasley: that I am, who can deliver me
David Beasley: from this body of death? Then the
David Beasley: next phrase, thanks be to God through
David Beasley: Jesus Christ.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Yes.
David Beasley: So Jesus Christ delivers him. And then
David Beasley: Romans 8. He talks about the walking
David Beasley: in the spirit and not the flesh.
David Beasley: He's not giving an excuse. That's another
David Beasley: thing. We don't want to leave anybody
David Beasley: with an excuse to say, oh, since
David Beasley: I can't, you know, I might as
David Beasley: well know. Just like he's saying, when
David Beasley: sin abound, grace abounded. Shall we continue?
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Shall we continue sin so that grace
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: can abound? God forbid.
David Beasley: If we are dead in sin, how
David Beasley: can we live in it any longer?
David Beasley: But it's called sanctification. And it's a
David Beasley: process, right? It's a process. And one
David Beasley: thing about growing in Christ and growing
David Beasley: in holiness is that as you mature
David Beasley: and cross a milestone, so to speak,
David Beasley: God will show you something else that
David Beasley: you gotta address. Something. It'll come in
David Beasley: a form of pride or a form
David Beasley: of discontentment, a form of idolatry. It
David Beasley: may not be some big old scandal.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: It may not be an action of
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: sin or outward expression.
David Beasley: It could be delayed obedience, some God
David Beasley: that's disobedience, and disobedience is sin. But
David Beasley: when he shows it to you, the
David Beasley: same power you had to overcome the
David Beasley: previous hurdles and make it over those
David Beasley: previous milestones is the same power that
David Beasley: he'll give you to overcome those as
David Beasley: well, right? Because you're more equipped and
David Beasley: he'll never leave you nor forsake you.
David Beasley: And he'll give you the grace to
David Beasley: overcome it. And it's a process of
David Beasley: learning and growing. Now, Paul is older
David Beasley: when he's saying stuff like this, this.
David Beasley: He's older when he's saying stuff like,
David Beasley: oh, this wretched man that who can
David Beasley: deliver me. He, you know, he. He.
David Beasley: He's been living the Christian faith for
David Beasley: a while and then walking with Jesus
David Beasley: myself. I will say that yes, you
David Beasley: grow, you mature. And there are certain
David Beasley: sins and certain things that don't even.
David Beasley: That used to have me bound, that
David Beasley: I don't even really. It's like not
David Beasley: really the enemy could try to when
David Beasley: there's a rough season. Something like I
David Beasley: remember how that felt. Deceitfulness of sin.
David Beasley: I remember that I'm not going back
David Beasley: to that bondage. But I'm not saying
David Beasley: there aren't other things. There are other
David Beasley: things that aren't as prominent in my
David Beasley: heart that I'd be like God, I
David Beasley: need to check that. Why did I
David Beasley: snap right there? Why did I get
David Beasley: so frustrated right there? Why did I
David Beasley: snap on my son? Why have I
David Beasley: not been, you know, as gracious or
David Beasley: loving as I should to my wife?
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: What?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, it happens. I know I was
Ti'heasha Beasley: crazy.
David Beasley: Not often see what happens when you
David Beasley: give an inch.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: They take confessing.
David Beasley: Trying to be transparent here. Be healed.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Which camera that makes Kim a great
Ti'heasha Beasley: husband. But the fact that so aware.
David Beasley: But the fact that the matter aware
David Beasley: of what he not doing right, but
David Beasley: anything right. Something I know I should.
David Beasley: Why didn't you tell that person, talk
David Beasley: to that person, pick up that phone
David Beasley: call?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
David Beasley: Why didn't you respond to that message?
David Beasley: Why were you short with that person?
David Beasley: You know, stuff like that. So just
David Beasley: realizing a life of sinlessness in that
David Beasley: regard, I'm thinking like Jesus type. No
David Beasley: sin whatsoever at all, period. First of
David Beasley: all, it's impossible to do that for
David Beasley: any believer because we're born in it
David Beasley: and we've sinned from the beginning. So
David Beasley: we gonna be sinless like Jesus. We
David Beasley: gotta be sinless since birth, and that's
David Beasley: not the case with us. But at
David Beasley: the same time, even in our rebirth,
David Beasley: it's a process and God is revealing
David Beasley: things in us. And that doesn't mean
David Beasley: we don't grow in maturity. Because I've
David Beasley: heard people say scripture says, be perfect,
David Beasley: for I am perfect. That see, be
David Beasley: perfect. I've had conversations and debates years
David Beasley: ago with individuals trying to say, see,
David Beasley: you can be perfect. But that word
David Beasley: perfect really means more maturity. It's a
David Beasley: sense of holiness and holiness. Yeah. It's
David Beasley: growing and Christlikeness. Do that and do
David Beasley: it consistently and pursue that. So like
David Beasley: Pastor Carlton said, growing in holiness, seeking
David Beasley: Christ likeness. Because God's gonna always show
David Beasley: you something about yourself. And when that
David Beasley: happens, praise God.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That's so true.
David Beasley: Because you're growing and he'll give you
David Beasley: the power to overcome.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Sometimes I just blame my flesh. I'd
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: be like, God, you know, I'm human,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: man. Come on.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: You know what body I'm living in?
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Jesus, you was in the same body.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: You understand? There's no excuses.
Ti'heasha Beasley: No excuse.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I'll be like, guy, I'm human. I'm
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: sorry. You know, that's a good question
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: you.
David Beasley: Asked, though, because some people rebound by
David Beasley: that sinless perfection.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Perfect.
David Beasley: Yeah, I got it. And that's not
David Beasley: an excuse. Because you got to be
David Beasley: people, they swing pendulums all over the
David Beasley: place nowadays. But rest in Christ first.
David Beasley: Know that he gave you everything you
David Beasley: need. Pursue holiness and obedience to him,
David Beasley: and he'll help you grow. And when
David Beasley: you fall, get back up. Like Donnie
David Beasley: McClurkin said. Who we fall.
Ti'heasha Beasley: We have such a self aware staff
Ti'heasha Beasley: here at dc.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: How so?
Ti'heasha Beasley: I just. I just watch. I watch
Ti'heasha Beasley: like we. So up close and personal,
Ti'heasha Beasley: you see the flaws. Like, oh, okay.
Ti'heasha Beasley: She. I'm one of them.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Are we.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, we so self aware. Like, we'll
Ti'heasha Beasley: have those days and then the next
Ti'heasha Beasley: day we'll come back or send a
Ti'heasha Beasley: text and it's like, I'm sorry, like,
Ti'heasha Beasley: shouldn't have responded like that. I just
Ti'heasha Beasley: love that for us it's.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Good times, though, because we are vulnerable
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to each other and we open up
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: ourselves and we combative. We like to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: debate and fight. Fight in a good
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: way, not fight in a bad way.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Everybody.
Ti'heasha Beasley: But did you just give us three
Ti'heasha Beasley: minutes?
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: That means what is happening for the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: fight. But that means that we. We
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: trust each other and love each other
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: so much that we are open to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: each other and can be vulnerable to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: each other.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I agree.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: You know, one time, David called me
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: a monster.
Ti'heasha Beasley: You did?
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Only out of love.
Ti'heasha Beasley: You called him a monster?
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I cried in the inside like a
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: winner. But out of love. You just
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: never know.
David Beasley: I probably did.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: It was like, you monster.
David Beasley: Sure was just.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I do remember that.
David Beasley: I do remember that. It was justified,
David Beasley: though.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: But look, it was justified. But that's
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: okay. I was vulnerable to receive it.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Oh, okay.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: My brother was checking me.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Wow. Okay, well, we love one another.
Ti'heasha Beasley: We lean by example.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: No, Is that right? Jesus's example.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Okay, we. We are landing the plane
Ti'heasha Beasley: cuz Ruben gave us three minutes.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: On fire. But who is Reuben? The
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: people under. They can't see Ruben. Who
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: is.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Ruben's been on the show. But yeah,
Ti'heasha Beasley: we got an amazing. What is he
Ti'heasha Beasley: producing team back there. We got Pretty
Ti'heasha Beasley: Angie and Reuben who run the. Run
Ti'heasha Beasley: it with Pranny.
David Beasley: Pretty Ruben and Andy. I like it.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Wait, what's the four of us trapped?
Ti'heasha Beasley: We're trapped.
David Beasley: We in the trap right now. Listen,
David Beasley: growing up, you ain't want to be
David Beasley: in a trap. Where I was from,
David Beasley: you don't want.
Ti'heasha Beasley: To be in a trap.
David Beasley: Thank God for grace and deliverance.
Ti'heasha Beasley: No, we got. We got a nice
Ti'heasha Beasley: squad who make between sermons. And a
Ti'heasha Beasley: lot of things happen here at D.C.
Ti'heasha Beasley: but okay, as we land a plane,
Ti'heasha Beasley: we give a takeaway for people watching.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Like, just what was the strongest point
Ti'heasha Beasley: that stood out to you or what
Ti'heasha Beasley: you want to leave the people with?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Try Jesus. Don't try me.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: After all that, he's still working on
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: me. My wife's got a shirt that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: said, he's still working on me. I'm
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: like, is that your excuse for how
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: you're gonna act when you're wearing a
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: shirt? A takeaway?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, takeaway, man.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I think my. How I landed, the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: message was probably the takeaway that I
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: want people to have that judgment is
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: real. Jesus is returning.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: It like, we can't escape that. I
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: almost want to say, it doesn't matter
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: how you live your life. He's returning.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: And that's still true. But I want
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: people to have an urgency to how
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: they live their life and accepting him
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: as their Lord, as the sovereign ruler
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: of their life, because he's returning. I
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: don't want people to have fear of
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: hell and run from hell to Him.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I want people to run towards him
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: because of love. He is returning. And
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I want people to have an urgency
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: to make him their Lord. So that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: was my. That's how I landed the
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: plane Sunday. And I want people to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: really, you know, take heed to that.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: I want them to think about their
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: eternity, their eternal destination. And with that,
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: with, with that in mind, how should
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: they live today?
Ti'heasha Beasley: That's good. That's good.
David Beasley: I would say I want people to
David Beasley: walk away with the knowledge and understanding
David Beasley: that Jesus is better. Regardless of what
David Beasley: you face and whatever you're situation is,
David Beasley: and regardless of the sin, the temptation,
David Beasley: the addiction, Jesus is better. Peter reminds
David Beasley: us to flee all types of debauchery
David Beasley: and drunkenness and parties and org all
David Beasley: type of things. Why not? Because he's
David Beasley: trying to ruin parties, but be a
David Beasley: party pooper necessarily and ruin your fun?
David Beasley: It's because he knows firsthand that Jesus
David Beasley: is better. So the person who says
David Beasley: it has great credibility based on his
David Beasley: experience and his proximity with Christ and
David Beasley: his life that Jesus was that Jesus
David Beasley: was Lord and Peter saw firsthand his
David Beasley: lordship and how powerful he is and
David Beasley: how Peter was a man who was
David Beasley: a fisherman, who Jesus made a fisher
David Beasley: of men. Also the fact that Peter
David Beasley: denied Christ three times and the Lord
David Beasley: restored him and used him mightily. He
David Beasley: saw that Jesus was better. He saw
David Beasley: Jesus die and rise from the dead,
David Beasley: defeat death, ascend into heaven. He saw
David Beasley: that and experienced the first outpouring of
David Beasley: the Spirit of God. And some may
David Beasley: say, what does that mean? What does
David Beasley: that have to do in anything? It's.
David Beasley: The fact of the matter is he
David Beasley: was there at some of Jesus's most
David Beasley: pivotal, mighty moments to, to. To. To
David Beasley: speak firsthand and let us know that
David Beasley: sin, temptation, all those things, they pale
David Beasley: in comparison to having relationship, you and
David Beasley: union, intimacy with Christ. That's what's. That's.
David Beasley: That should be first and foremost in
David Beasley: our lives. So I would encourage the
David Beasley: people and all of us to just
David Beasley: know that Jesus is better. Whatever the
David Beasley: thing that tries to draw us away
David Beasley: from him in other directions to appease
David Beasley: ourselves and please our flesh and our
David Beasley: own desires. I pray we look at
David Beasley: those things and confess that Jesus is
David Beasley: better and believe it and allow him
David Beasley: to transform our lives.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Man, those were so good, I don't
Ti'heasha Beasley: even think I need to give one.
Ti'heasha Beasley: So what?
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: No more drinking parties?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Are you saying that that's.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Oh, no, that's not your. Your takeaway.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That's my takeaway. Okay. No, I think
Ti'heasha Beasley: overall, I was just thinking, like, just
Ti'heasha Beasley: saying, like, as an encouragement to believers
Ti'heasha Beasley: who are especially newer believers when they're
Ti'heasha Beasley: having to identify some areas in their
Ti'heasha Beasley: life, like being at these parties or
Ti'heasha Beasley: being in company of people or putting
Ti'heasha Beasley: themselves in situations to be tempted. Like,
Ti'heasha Beasley: it is hard, but it is worth
Ti'heasha Beasley: it.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: And you.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It will become easier. And you may
Ti'heasha Beasley: get people who think you are holier
Ti'heasha Beasley: than thou and all those things, but
Ti'heasha Beasley: it's. That's part of the journey, the
Ti'heasha Beasley: faith walk. So I just encourage you
Ti'heasha Beasley: to keep going. It gets easier. God
Ti'heasha Beasley: will send the right friends, and y'
Ti'heasha Beasley: all can have Christian fun like I
Ti'heasha Beasley: do now. I have good old Christian
Ti'heasha Beasley: fun.
David Beasley: You make it sound so lit.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: You make it sound so terrible.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It's. It is like. It is like,
Ti'heasha Beasley: in a grand scheme of things, we
Ti'heasha Beasley: are the lame.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: The life of Christ is so much
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: better.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It is, but it's o better life.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Like, I have peace. I got joy.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I. I ain't waking up with drama
Ti'heasha Beasley: the next day.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: There's a different mindset that you have
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: when you are in Christ that it's
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: like, I was talking to a couple
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: pastors, and it was an event that
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: happened, and they was like, did you
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: get invited to that event? I was
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: like, no. They was like, did. Did
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: you get invited to that event? It
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: was like, no. They was like, thank
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: God for not being invited. And it
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: was such a piece that we had
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that we can just. And it wasn't
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: about, like, maintaining holiness or anything like
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: that, but, like, we don't need to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: be involved. It was such a piece
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: and a confidence. We don't need to
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: be involved in what the world is
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: doing. Yeah, it was great.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It is great.
David Beasley: It is.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It is. And the more you mature,
Ti'heasha Beasley: you'll realize it's for your good. And
Ti'heasha Beasley: so, yeah, I just encourage you to
Ti'heasha Beasley: stay strong. But we thank you for
Ti'heasha Beasley: rocking with us. Thank you guys for
Ti'heasha Beasley: being on this episode. The trap. Be
Ti'heasha Beasley: with the trap.
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: Bees in the trap. Be bees in
Pastor Carlton McCarthy: the trap.
David Beasley: Between sermons.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Between sermons. I hope. Pastor Brad, I
Ti'heasha Beasley: hope we did you some justice while
Ti'heasha Beasley: you were away, but.
David Beasley: Kind of like this seat, though, PB
David Beasley: Kind of comfy right here. I like
David Beasley: the angle. Okay. Get used to this.
Ti'heasha Beasley: All right. All right. Well, until next
Ti'heasha Beasley: time, we hope you enjoyed this show.
Ti'heasha Beasley: If you have any questions, let us
Ti'heasha Beasley: know, and we will see you next
Ti'heasha Beasley: week. Sam.